## Performance Strategies
- Send less code to the browser `(Code Splitting)`
- Cache expensive calculations to re-use from render to render
- Avoid unnecessary re-renders
- Re-structure the application

## How react renders?
- Recursive rendering
- `re-render` is based on state change
- **Three phrases** of rendering in order to update the DOM:
    1. `render phase` (fast): React will determine what changes need to be made to the DOM
        - All components in this branch of the tree are called again. Any calculations and side effects get run again in JS and a new **virtual DOM** is created.
    2. `reconciliation phase` (fast): React will compare the **new virtual DOM** with the **previous virtual DOM** using `diffing algorithm` to determine what changes has been made from the last render.
    3. `commit to DOM phase` (bottleneck occurs): React will make the changes to the actual DOM based on the smallest amount of work needed (determined in reconciliation) to ensure the actual DOM is displaying correctly.

## What is StrictMode doing?
- Wrap the application with StrictMode. It provides additional checks/warnings to along the way to ensure we are writing the code in the React way. **(Only in development mode)**
    1. `Double renders` all functions that should be `pure functions`, including the functional components.
        - Example: The following code re-renders the copy of the original data (OK), but it would cause problem if we modify the unmutated data (original) and `React.StrictMode` can catch that by double rendering.
            ```
            const dataCopy = [...data]
            dataCopy.push({
                id: faker.database.mongodbObjectId(),
                name: "+ new item"
            })
            ```
    2. `Re-run` all side-effects twice in compoents: it surfaces any `hidden bugs` in the development process.
        - Potential problem: function in side-effects that does not get unmounted / clean up
        - Example: The following code enusure clearing up the side-effects
            ```
            React.useEffect(() => {
                const id = setInterval(() => {
                    setSeconds(prevSeconds => prevSeconds + 1)
                    // console.log("Timer is running")
                }, 1000)
                return () => clearInterval(id)
            }, [])
            ```
    3. Check for deprecated React APIs.

## Code Splitting
- Allow us to `reduce download size` for parts of application
    - Conditionally import parts of the code **(features or libraries of code)** only when needed.
    - Split up download times, so the `main feature aren't blocked` by slow connections.
    - Sometimes bypasses unneeded code
- How to do?
    - Use `dynamic import`: `import()`
    - Combine with `React.lazy()`: to only load heavy component if needed `(lazy loading)`
    - Use `<Suspense>` to provide a fallback UI while lazy component is loading

- Example:
    ```
    // Suspending component
    const heavyComponent = React.lazy(() => {
        return import("./heavyComponent"); // return a Promise comes back from the dynamic import
    })

    <React.Suspense fallback={<h2>Loading...</h2>}>
      <div className="comp-style">
        {showComponent && <heavyComponent />}
      </div>
    </React.Suspense>
    ```

## React.useMemo()
- To remember calculated values between renders
    1. `Avoid re-calculating expensive calculations` if not necessary
        - Example: the following code avoids re-cal the large data from one render to the next as long as the state of data not changed
            ```
            const count = React.useMemo(() => {
                return slowCountItems(data, 500) // assuming this function causes delay
            }, [data])
            ```

    2. Maintain `referential equality` of a complex data type between renders **(SEE BELOW)**

## React.memo()
- Reduce unnecessary rerenders
- What is React.memo()?
    - A `Higher-Order component (HOC)` built by react
        - A HOC is a function that takes a `component` as an argument, adds some ability to it and return a beefed-up version of it back

- What does React.memo() do?
    - `Memorizes/caches` a component by react if the `props` don't change from one render to the next
    - return a new component that will `check the previous props to the upcoming new props`, will `skip` re-rendering that component if they are the `same`. 
- BUT only consider reducing rerenders after fixing slow renders (As React's rendering phase is not slow/expensive due to diffing algo) 
- Example:
    ```
    function GrandParent() {
        console.log("GrandParent rendered")
        return (
            <div className="grandparent">
                <p>GrandParent Component.</p>
                <Parent />
                <Parent />
            </div>
        )
    }

    export default React.memo(GrandParent)
    ```

## useCallback()
- `Maintain reference` to **functions** between renders
    - Avoid rerenders with `React.memo()`
    - Avoid too many useEffect() calls: function inside useEffect will be re-run if the dependency changes, because the reference of the dependency is changing.
    - Example:
        ```
        const increment = React.useCallback(() => {
            setCount(prevCount => prevCount + 1)
        }, [setCount])
        ```

## Referential Equality
- JS stores all functions and values in memory
- JS **manages memory** for these types **differently**:
    - `Value Types (Primitive types)`: booleans, numbers, strings
        - Value types are equal if they have the same value
            ```
            let a = 1
            let b = '1' // a === b return false
            ```
    - `Reference Types (Complex types)`: Objects, arrays, functions
        - Reference types are equal if they reference the same thing in memory
            ```
            let a = {name: "Joe"}
            let b = {name: "Joe"} // a === b return false as they are two distinct objects in memory
            ```
