### Is it possible to pass states to a sibling component?
- NO!

### Prop drilling
- It happens when a component down the component tree needs access to data in a higher component, and the data is manually passed down to each child component until it reaches the component that needs it.

- Say if the sibling component needs the state as well? You need to pass it from a higher component thru props, then these component (in the same level of the tree) can get it.

### But what if there is a component that is completely disconnected needs the state?

- That is annoying because you might need to pass it from root component(App) down to the child component who needs it

### Solution???
- YES
#### 1. Compound component
- flatten the structure
- easily pass props to more deeply-nested components

    `Compound component`:

        - Use `children` props
        - Each component can have dedicated function or styling
        - Make the component structure more transparent
        - Give more control to the "user" of the component

#### 2. Context
- access state directly from the components that need it

### But how to have components state to interact with each other or pass state from parent to children component?

#### 1. React.Children API
- An API provided by React, act as an utility that provides methods fro interacting with a component's `direct` children elements
        
    - React.Children.map()
    - React.Children.forEach()
    - React.cloneElement()
        - Utility that duplicates a React element and provides a way to inject additional props to that element.
        - When used with `React.Children.map()`, it can be used to augment the original children with new props

- ##### Limitation:
    - `Fragile`: React.Children only applies to `direct` children, might break the compound component (i.e. add another `<div>`), but `<div>` doesn't know the state/function passed from parent
    - `Limited in depth`: for more complex compound components, we might need React.Children and React.cloneElement() for every nested layer of components to handle implicit state (see `<MenuDropdown/>`)

#### 2. Context
- `<Provider />` can hold the JS values (function, string, objects...), component who uses `useContext()` hook will have access to the values that the `<Provider />` is able to give.

### Aside: Headlesss components
- Don't have any styled UI to display, just purely intended to provide the `functionality`.

### Aside: Event bubbling
- `Event bubbling` is a mechanism in which an event triggered on a child element is `propagated` (or "bubbles up") to its parent elements in the DOM hierarchy.
- Example: 

        return (
            <div onClick={handleParentClick}>
                Parent Div
                <button onClick={handleChildClick}>
                    Click me!
                </button>
            </div>
        );

    - After the button's `handleChildClick` event is triggered, the event then bubbles up to its parent `<div>` where `handleParentClick` is also handled.

- `event.stopPropagation()` to prevent the parent's click handler from being executed when the child's click handler is executed.
